bracket-tutorial (#15)
gnosis/dex-docs: docs/tutorial_bracket_strategy.md

# Tutorial: Liquidity Provision on Gnosis Protocol

Before getting started, make sure you have familiarized yourself with the Gnosis Protocol [introduction](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/introduction1).

This tutorial explains how to provide liquidity passively via standing orders with a so-called passive Customized Market Marketing (CMM). This strategy deploys several "brackets" (Gnosis-Safe contracts), which hold and trade two tokens `(token_1, token_2)` against each other on the Gnosis Protocol.
They are called brackets, as their orders are opening and closing like brackets:
One order is selling `token_1` for `token_2` for a certain price, while the second order is buying `token_1` for `token_2` at a little bit lower rate.
If the price moves in way such that both orders are traded one after the other, the passive liquidity provider earns the spread of their orders.

> This concept is well explained in the documentation of [Customized Market Maker](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_zTkuhWioTbRsbwKnBi5gEi3m7-bFcPyikQid7EUA2M/edit). Please study this article carefully before proceeding with this tutorial.

Author: Here, we need to insert the official link

This tutorial will cover the following steps:

1. Prerequisites
2. Setting up a MASTER_SAFE
3. Liquidity provision
4. Withdrawing liquidity

If you have any questions, don't hesitate to visit us in the [Gnosis discord channel](https://chat.gnosis.io/)

This tutorial is for informational purposes only. It is not a risk assessment, nor investment advice! It is not intended to substitute for the advice of licensed professionals. Gnosis believes that the information is accurate as of the date of publication. No warranty of accuracy is given, and no liability for any error or omission is accepted by Gnosis Ltd. and/or its affiliates.

## Prerequisites

> In this tutorial uses mainly two tools: The normal Truffle scripts to build sophisticated and bundled Ethereum transactions and the Gnosis-Safe interface to sign most of these transactions. In the Gnosis-Safe interface, we will generate a MASTER_SAFE, which will own all other accounts required for the liquidity provision and has full control over the funds involved in the liquidity provision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses mainly two tools: The normal Truffle scripts to build sophisticated and bundled Ethereum transactions and the Gnosis-Safe interface to sign most of these transactions. In the Gnosis-Safe interface, we will generate a MASTER_SAFE, which will own all other accounts required for the liquidity provision and has full control over the funds involved in the liquidity provision.
```

Signing and posting multi-send transaction 0x007ecc58f9dc222c26215b260abc363e0308dfec539d7eeabb8a2c9f09397157 from proposer account 0x740a98F8f4fAe0986FB3264Fe4aaCf94ac1EE96f
Transaction awaiting execution in the interface https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/app/#/safes/$MASTER_SAFE/transactions

==> Sending the funds transferring transaction, please execute this transaction second

Signing and posting multi-send transaction 0x09cb78a5a49f10305a2f108d45e8fa059e4231ebf219315c56409d67419d65fb from proposer account 0x740a98F8f4fAe0986FB3264Fe4aaCf94ac1EE96f
Transaction awaiting execution in the interface https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/app/#/safes/$MASTER_SAFE/transactions
```

Now, you should just follow the link and sign & execute the transaction with the lower transaction-ID first. It should look like this:

![Read tokenAddressToIdMap](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy_signing.png)

For executing, just press the button _confirm_.

Once this first transaction is mined, execute the second one.

Congrats! You just provided liquidity and have a chance to earn some passive income if the prices are moving and returning back to your initial `currentPrice`.

> ## Withdrawing liquidity

Reviewer: Note: include the changes from [this PR](https://github.com/gnosis/dex-liquidity-provision/pull/279) when it will be merged.

> # Tutorial: Liquidity provision on Gnosis Protocol

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Tutorial: Liquidity Provision on Gnosis Protocol
```

> Before you get started, make sure you have familiarized yourself with the Gnosis Protocol [introduction](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/introduction1).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before getting started, make sure you have familiarized yourself with the Gnosis Protocol [introduction](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/introduction1).
```

> This tutorial explains how to provide liquidity passively via standing orders with a so-called "bracket-liquidity strategy". This strategy deploys several "brackets" - Gnosis-Safe contracts -, which hold and trade two tokens `(token_1, token_2)` against each other on the Gnosis Protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial explains how to provide liquidity passively via standing orders with a so-called "bracket-liquidity strategy". This strategy deploys several "brackets" (Gnosis-Safe contracts), which hold and trade two tokens `(token_1, token_2)` against each other on the Gnosis Protocol.
```

They are called brackets, as their orders are opening and closing like brackets:
One order is selling `token_1` for `token_2` for a certain price, while the second order is buying `token_1` for `token_2` at a little bit lower rate.
If the price moves in way such that both orders are traded one after the other, the passive liquidity provider earns the spread of their orders.

> This concept is well explained in the documentation of [the programmable-orders](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_zTkuhWioTbRsbwKnBi5gEi3m7-bFcPyikQid7EUA2M/edit). Please study this article carefully before proceeding with this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This concept is well explained in the documentation of [programmable orders](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_zTkuhWioTbRsbwKnBi5gEi3m7-bFcPyikQid7EUA2M/edit). Please study this article carefully before proceeding with this tutorial.
```

> This concept is well explained in the documentation of [the programmable-orders](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_zTkuhWioTbRsbwKnBi5gEi3m7-bFcPyikQid7EUA2M/edit). Please study this article carefully before proceeding with this tutorial.

Reviewer: Not really an issue of this PR, but my first question would be: how are these orders "programmable"?

Reviewer 2: I mentioned a similar point below!

This tutorial will cover the following steps:

1. Prerequisites

> 2. Setting up a MASTER-SAFE

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Setting up a MASTER_SAFE
```

3. Liquidity provision
4. Withdrawing liquidity

> 5. Even more secure setup with more owners

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Securing your setup with more owners
```

If you have any questions, don't hesitate to visit us in the [Gnosis discord channel](https://chat.gnosis.io/)

## Prerequisites

> In this tutorial uses mainly two tools: The normal truffle scripts to build complicated and bundled ethereum transactions and the Gnosis-Safe interface to sign most of these transactions. In the Gnosis-Safe interface, we will generate a MASTER_SAFE, which will own all other accounts required for the liquidity provision and has full control over the funds involved in the liquidity provision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial uses mainly two tools: The normal Truffle scripts to build complicated and bundled Ethereum transactions and the Gnosis-Safe interface to sign most of these transactions. In the Gnosis-Safe interface, we will generate a MASTER_SAFE, which will own all other accounts required for the liquidity provision and has full control over the funds involved in the liquidity provision.
```

The prerequisites to this tutorial are:

1.  Have a _proposer-account_: You should generate a new Ethereum-account via your preferred tool (e.g., MetaMask) and fund this account with a little bit of Ether. 0.2 ETH should suffice.

>     This account will be used for two tasks: Firstly, it will be used to deploy new proxy-contracts. Secondly, it is used to propose transaction to the Gnosis-Safe interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This account will be used for two tasks: First, to deploy new proxy-contracts. Secondly, it is used to propose transaction to the Gnosis-Safe interface.
```

> 2.  Have a _signer-account_: You should have one designated signer Ethereum-account. This account can be an already given account, and most people would probably prefer to use their usual MetaMask account. This signer-account will be added as an owner to your MASTER_SAFE and you will sign transactions with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Have a _signer-account_: You should have one designated signer Ethereum-account. This account can be an already existing account, and most people would probably prefer to use their usual MetaMask account. This signer-account will be added as an owner to your MASTER_SAFE and you will sign and execute transactions with it.
```

3.  Investment-tokens: Have the tokens you want to invest in the liquidity provision ready.

> 4.  Token-listing: Once you have decided for a token pair to provide liquidity for, you need to make sure that both tokens are already listed on the exchange. Listing is a permissionless process and is explained [here](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/addtoken1/).

Reviewer 2: I really like this segway into another tutorial!

> 4.  Token-listing: Once you have decided for a token pair to provide liquidity for, you need to make sure that both tokens are already listed on the exchange. Listing is a permissionless process and is explained [here](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/addtoken1/).

Reviewer: This explains how to add tokens, but I expect the majority of our users to be interested in tokens that are already listed. Is there a link for the much easier "find out if a token is listed"?

Reviewer 2: +1

## Setting up a MASTER_SAFE

In the upcoming sections, all scripts are executed on Rinkeby only.

> In order to perform the steps on Mainnet, you need to do some obvious modifications. For example, you would want to go to [https://gnosis-safe.io/](https://gnosis-safe.io/) instead of [https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/](https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/).

Reviewer: I think that in the documentation of something new nothing should be "obvious".
```suggestion
In order to perform the steps on Mainnet, you need to do some simple modifications. For example, you would want to go to [https://gnosis-safe.io/](https://gnosis-safe.io/) instead of [https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/](https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/).
```

> First, we will generate a Gnosis-Safe account. This account is needed to bundle a lot of Ethereum transactions to 2 only transactions to simplify the whole setup process and to safe gas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we will generate a Gnosis-Safe account. This account is needed to bundle a lot of Ethereum transactions to 2 only transactions to simplify the whole setup process and to save gas.
```

1. Visit: https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/ and sign into MetaMask with your "signer account".

> ![Gnosis-Interface landing page](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy-safe-start-page.png)

Reviewer 2: nit: I think it is common practice, when including images, to put them in a folder called "static"

Reviewer 2: Also, this image has a lot of empty white space. Could we crop this or at least have something displayed in the void?

Author: I stored the files in the same file as the other tutorials are doing it right now...

2. Create a new Gnosis-Safe by following the steps on the display:

- give your Gnosis-Safe a name: `MASTER_SAFE`

> - add a second owner, the "proposer account"

Reviewer 2: Not entirely sure if we want something-account hyphenated everywhere, but we should at least be consistent. I think I would probably go without the hyphens...

```suggestion
- add a second owner, the "proposer-account"
```

- set the threshold for executing transactions to 2
  ![Owners and confirmation](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy_safe-setup.png)

3. Finish the setup process by signing the MetaMask transaction

> 4. Now, you should see your brand new gnosis-safe. Congrats. Send the funds you want to invest into the bracket strategy to the Gnosis-Safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Now, you should see your brand new Gnosis Safe. Congrats! Send the funds you want to invest into the bracket strategy to the Gnosis Safe.
```

> ## Liquidity provision

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Liquidity Provision
```

Get the code of github repo: https://github.com/gnosis/dex-liquidity-provision by running:

```ssh

> cd <your preferred dictionary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd <your preferred directory>
```

git clone git@github.com:gnosis/dex-liquidity-provision.git
cd dex-liquidity-provision

> yarn install

Reviewer 2: I guess we include install so that is it more self-descriptive than just `yarn`

npx truffle compile
yarn run networks-inject

> ```

Reviewer: I expect some users not having `yarn` installed, and possibly also `npm` and `git`. Also, this implies using Linux or Mac.

Reviewer: Also can't we use `yarn compile` instead of `npx truffle compile`, assuming it exists. If not, we should create it.

Reviewer: Lastly, our script requires Node version 10, and this should be at least said somewhere.

`yarn install` will install all dependencies needed and `npx truffle compile` will compile your the necessary contracts.

> `yarn run networks-inject` will make sure that you will work with the correct contracts - it will inject the network addresses into your truffle builds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`yarn run networks-inject` ensures you are working with the correct contracts - it will inject the network addresses into your truffle builds.
```

> `yarn run networks-inject` will make sure that you will work with the correct contracts - it will inject the network addresses into your truffle builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`yarn run networks-inject` will make sure that you will work with the correct contracts - it will inject the network addresses into your Truffle builds.
```

You find the core script placing orders for the basic liquidity strategy in the folder `scripts/complete_liquidity_provision.js`.

> Before you start this script, you need to export some environment variables and prepare the parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before running this script, you will need to export some environment variables and prepare the parameters.
```

> ### Env variables

Reviewer 2: nit: We are shortening one of the two terms that are usually shortened (env vars). I would propose both or none, but given that this is a section header, none is my preference.
```suggestion
### Environment Variables
```

Run the following commands in your console:

```ssh
export NETWORK_NAME=rinkeby
export GAS_PRICE_GWEI=<gas price>
export MASTER_SAFE=<your safe address>

> export PK=<your private key of the proposer-account>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export PK=<private key of the proposer-account>
```

> export PK=<your private key of the proposer-account>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export PK=<the private key of the proposer-account>
```

```

> The `NETWORK_NAME` should be set to Mainnet or Rinkeby. The gas price should be set in a way that your transaction gets mined in a reasonable time. Check out reasonable gas prices on [ethgasstation](https://ethgasstation.info/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `NETWORK_NAME` should be set to "mainnet" or "rinkeby". The gas price should be set in a way that your transaction is mined in a reasonable amount of time. Check out current gas prices on [ethgasstation](https://ethgasstation.info/).
```

> The `MASTER_SAFE` should be the safe address from the Gnosis-Safe created in the previous section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `MASTER_SAFE` is the safe address from the Gnosis Safe created in the previous section.
```

> The `PK` should be the private key of your proposer account used as an owner in the Gnosis-Safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `PK` is the private key of your proposer account used as an owner in the Gnosis Safe.
```

> Note, that in our current setup the PK is not secured with the highest standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that, in our current setup the `PK` is not secured with the highest standards.
```

> Note, that in our current setup the PK is not secured with the highest standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in our current setup the proposer account's private key is not handled safely, since it's available as an environment variable and in the command-line history.
```

> Hence, do not deposit more funds than some deployment ETH into this account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hence, it would be unwise to transfer more ETH than required for deployment into this account.
```

### Script parameters

The script `complete_liquidity_provision` takes the following non-optional parameters:

> - _masterSafe_: This is the MASTER-SAFE you generated in the previous step. You should set the value to \$MASTER_SAFE

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- _masterSafe_: This is the `MASTER_SAFE` you generated and exported in the previous step. You should set the value to $MASTER_SAFE
```

Is the backslash special here or necessary for something?

> - _fleetSize_: The fleet size determines how many brackets you want to deploy. This number must be even and smaller than 20.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- _fleetSize_: The fleet size determines how many brackets you want to deploy. This number must be _even_ and less than or equal to 20.
```

We should probably change this to `numBrackets`. Not that the internal backend logic needs to change, but just the user facing aspect.

> - _targetToken_: You are specifying two tokens you want to provide liquidity for, the _targetToken_ and the _stableToken_ via their indices. In order to get the `tokenIndex` of a token, follow the next section. If you specify the more stable token via stableToken and the more volatile token via targetToken, then most likely the price parameter is more intuitive. Eg., if you are trading `ETH/DAI` with `stableToken=Index(DAI)`, then the parameter `currentPrice` can be specified as a number > 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _targetToken_: You are specifying two tokens you want to provide liquidity for, the _targetToken_ and the _stableToken_ via their indices. In order to get the token index, follow the next section. If you specify the more stable token via stableToken and the more volatile token via targetToken, then most likely the price parameter is more intuitive. Eg., if you are trading `ETH/DAI` with `stableToken=Index(DAI)`, then the parameter `currentPrice` can be specified as a number > 1.
```

- _stableToken_: specifies the second token you want to trade via its `tokenIndex`. In order to determine the tokenIndex, see the section.
- _investmentTargetToken_: This is the cumulative sum of all targetTokens you want to invest in all brackets

> - investmentStableToken: This is the cumulative sum of all stableTokens you want to invest in all brackets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _investmentStableToken_: This is the cumulative sum of all stableTokens you want to invest in all brackets
```

- _currentPrice_: Please provide the current price of the trading pair: [ targetToken ] / [ stableToken ]. Your input will be checked for plausibility by the script via the price of dex.ag
- _lowestLimit_: The liquidity provided will be split over the a price range of [lowestLimit, highestLimit]. Hence, the lowestLimit specifies the lowest price any bracket should trade.
- _highestLimit_: The liquidity provided will be split over the a price range of [lowestLimit, highestLimit]. Hence, the highestLimit specifies the highest price any bracket should trade.

> 

Reviewer 2: Don't forget the new parameters:

`--brackets`, `--dry-run` and... `--verify` and `--nonce`

Alternatively, I think this could be merged without, but need to be updated in a separate PR.

> #### Getting the `tokenIndex` of your tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Getting the index of your tokens
```

Reviewer: Also in the following section, I don't see a reason to call it "`tokenIndex`" instead of "token index" or just "index"

> All token that have been added to the Gnosis protocol get a unique `tokenIndex`. In order to read the `tokenIndex`, visit [Etherscan GP contract(Rinkeby)](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xc576ea7bd102f7e476368a5e98fa455d1ea34de2#code) or for mainnet [Etherscan GP contract(Mainnet)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6f400810b62df8e13fded51be75ff5393eaa841f). Then, click on the tab: _Contract_ and the button "Read Contract":

Reviewer 2: Couldn't we also provide a link to dune dashboard? It has the token IDs as well right?

![Read Etherscan contract](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy-etherscan-read.png)

> Then, you want to go down to the function: `tokenAddressToIdMap` and paste the token address of your token into the parameter field and run the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then go down to the function: `tokenAddressToIdMap` and paste the token address of your token into the parameter field and run the query.
```

I think there is also a fixed number assigned to this function. It is item number 27!

<img width="347" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-11 at 11 47 08 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11778116/81548219-3a81c680-937d-11ea-8f5a-7068e627dbd8.png">

> In the following image, we used the WETH address in Rinkeby, which happens to have the index 1.

Reviewer 2: I would use DAI or something so that the ID doesn't just happen to be 1.

![Read tokenAddressToIdMap](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy-tokenAddressToIdMap.png)

> If your tokens have not been added to the Gnosis-protocol, please follow this [tutorial](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/addtoken1/).

Reviewer 2: nit: This has already been stated and linked once. No real  harm in doing it again, but want to make sure its not a mistake.

> ### Running the script and place your first liquidity strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run the script and place your first liquidity strategy
```

Either this suggestion or

```
### Running the script and placing your first liquidity strategy
```

> The following script will place programmable orders for the pair DAI-WETH on a price range [150,260] on Rinkeby.

Reviewer 2: what exactly about these orders is "programmable"? I find this term to be awkward and somewhat out of place here. Have we mentioned this before anywhere in the tutorial?

Author: It got most of the votes in Chris survey..

You will invest 1000 [DAI](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x5592EC0cfb4dbc12D3aB100b257153436a1f0FEa) and 5 [WETH](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xc778417E063141139Fce010982780140Aa0cD5Ab).

```ssh
export NETWORK_NAME=rinkeby

> export GAS_PRICE_GWEI=1

Reviewer 2: Thia seems low? Could we use 5?

Author: it does not matter for rinkeby

export MASTER_SAFE=<your master safe>

> export PK=<your private key of the proposer account>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export PK=<private key of the proposer account>
```

> export PK=<your private key of the proposer account>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export PK=<the private key of the proposer account>
```

```

```ssh
cd dex-liquidity-provision
yarn install
npx truffle compile

> yarn run networks-inject

Reviewer 2: Maybe note that the reader has likely already done this, or link them to the above "setup commands".

npx truffle exec scripts/complete_liquidity_provision.js --targetToken=0 --stableToken=7 --lowestLimit=150 --highestLimit=260 --currentPrice=200 --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --investmentTargetToken=5 --investmentStableToken=1000 --fleetSize=20 --network=$NETWORK_NAME
```

> The script will first make some plausibility checks as the mentioned price check and that the boundaries - highestLimit and lowerLimit - are set reasonable for the current price.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The script will first make some plausibility checks as the mentioned price check and that the boundaries - highestLimit and lowerLimit - are reasonably set for the current price.
```

> Then, it will create a transaction deploying new safes. All the address of the Gnosis-Safes will be printed on the screen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will then create a transaction deploying new safes. All new deployed Safe addresses will be printed on the screen.
```

> Afterwards, the transaction containing all the orders will be build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Afterwards, the transaction containing all the orders is built.
```

> All the order placements will be bundled into one transaction, which will appear first in the Gnosis-Interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the order placements are bundled into one transaction, appearing first in the Gnosis Safe Interface.
```

> Before you sign the transaction, make sure to check the correctness of the displayed orders of the script output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you sign the transaction, make sure to check the correctness of the displayed orders from the script's output.
```

> Also, the transaction sending the DAI and WETH into the brackets and depositing it on behalf of the brackets into the GP exchange contract is built in parallel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The transaction transferring the DAI and WETH into the brackets and depositing, on their behalf, into the GP exchange contract is built in parallel.
```

> This is the second transaction send to the interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the second transaction sent to the interface.
```

If everything goes smoothly, you should see the two transaction initiations confirmed like that:

```ssh

==> Sending the order placing transaction to gnosis-safe interface.
    Attention: This transaction MUST be executed first!

Signing and posting multi-send transaction 0x007ecc58f9dc222c26215b260abc363e0308dfec539d7eeabb8a2c9f09397157 from proposer account 0x740a98F8f4fAe0986FB3264Fe4aaCf94ac1EE96f
Transaction awaiting execution in the interface https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/app/#/safes/$MASTER_SAFE/transactions

==> Sending the funds transferring transaction, please execute this transaction second

Signing and posting multi-send transaction 0x09cb78a5a49f10305a2f108d45e8fa059e4231ebf219315c56409d67419d65fb from proposer account 0x740a98F8f4fAe0986FB3264Fe4aaCf94ac1EE96f

> Transaction awaiting execution in the interface https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/app/#/safes/$MASTER_SAFE/transactions

Reviewer 2: Should we, maybe created an issue to only display the link once? Or can we get two unique links using the nonce maybe?

```

Now, you should just follow the link and sign & execute the transaction with the lower transaction-ID first. It should look like this:

![Read tokenAddressToIdMap](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy_signing.png)

For executing, just press the button _confirm_.

> If you are executing the second transaction with a lower gasPrice than the first one, then you can sign it immediately.

Reviewer: Is this true? If one has lower gas price but requires less gas overall it might still be included in the block before the one with higher price.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe so. Especially not now that we specify the nonce. It is not even possible to submit the second until the first has already been submitted.

Reviewer: Yep, just tested, you are right! The second transaction cannot be executed before the first has been confirmed. Then the wording here should probably change.

Otherwise, you should wait until the first one is mined. This works as the gas price usually determines the mining order of the transaction.

> Congrats. You managed to provide liquidity and have a chance to earn a passive income, if the prices are moving and returning back to your initial currentPrice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congrats! You just provided liquidity and have a chance to earn some passive income if the prices are moving and returning back to your initial `currentPrice`.
```

## Withdrawing liquidity

> The withdrawal from the Gnosis Protocol is always done in two step: requesting withdrawals and the actual withdrawal transferring the funds.

Reviewer 2: nit: we said GP in all places above here and then referred to the full name only once afterwards. I suggest replacing all occurrences of GP with "Gnosis Protocol".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The withdrawal from the Gnosis Protocol is always done in two steps: Requesting and Claiming.
```

### Withdraw request

Withdrawal requests can be made with the following command:

```ssh

> npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma separated brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --requestWithdraw --network=$MASTER_SAFE

Reviewer 2: Do the indices really need to be in the square brackets?

```

Here, the flag `--requestWithdraw` is very important part, which tells the script to initiate the the withdraw request.
The `tokenIndices` of the tokens, which you want to withdraw from the brackets need to be specified via the flag `--tokenIds=[indices]`.
Under normal usage, these are the exact same indices, which were used during the liquidity provision.

> The flag `--brackets=[comma separated brackets]` needs to contain the brackets that were deployed during the liquidity provision.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The flag `--brackets=[comma separated brackets]` must contain the brackets that were deployed during the liquidity provision.
```

In case you don't remember them, you would have to run the following command:

```ssh

> npx truffle exec scripts/get_deployed_brackets.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --network=$NETWORK_NAME

Reviewer: Nice, I wasn't aware this was already possible.

> ```

Reviewer 2: Nice! I didn't know we had this. What if I ran the liquidity provision twice with two different token pairs from the same master safe? Does this script somehow know where to withdraw from?

I think we should include a note here about this.

> which will display all your previously written brackets and generate a csv listing the brackets with more information.

Reviewer 2: Ahh, sorry, I guess this answers my previous question.
```suggestion
which displays all previously deployed brackets and generate a csv listing them with more information.
```

> which will display all your previously written brackets and generate a csv listing the brackets with more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which will display all your previously written brackets and generate a CSV listing the brackets with more information.
```

> By running the withdraw request script, you have generated a transaction within your Gnosis-safe interface. Execute this transaction and wait - maximal 5 minutes after the transaction gets mined - until the gnosis protocol closes its batch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By running the withdraw request script, you have generated a transaction within your Gnosis-safe interface. Execute this transaction and wait - maximal 5 minutes after the transaction gets mined - until the Gnosis Protocol closes the current auction batch.
```

> In the next batch you will be able to withdraw your funds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the next batch you will be able to claim your funds.
```

### Withdrawing funds

> The actual withdraw transaction transferring the tokens back into the MASTER SAFE from the Gnosis Protocol can be initiated with the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The actual withdraw transaction transferring the tokens back into the MASTER_SAFE from the Gnosis Protocol can be initiated with the following command.
```

```ssh

> npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma separated brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --withdraw --network=$MASTER_SAFE

Reviewer 2: I don't think the square brackets are needed (might be worth mentioning).

> npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma separated brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --withdraw --network=$MASTER_SAFE

Reviewer: `--transferFundsToMaster` missing.

Reviewer: Also, you might want to specify that the brackets must be comma separated with no spaces after the comma.

```

> The parameters are basically the same as in the requesting withdraw script, besides the new flag `--withdraw` instead of `--withdrawRequest`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The parameters are essentially the same as in the requesting withdraw script, except for the new flag `--withdraw` instead of `--withdrawRequest`.
```

In case you don't remember them, you would have to run the following command:

```ssh
npx truffle exec scripts/get_deployed_brackets.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --network=$NETWORK_NAME
```

which will display all your previously written brackets and generate a CSV listing the brackets with more information.

By running the withdraw request script, you have generated a transaction within your Gnosis-safe interface. Execute this transaction and wait - maximal 5 minutes after the transaction gets mined - until the Gnosis Protocol closes the current auction batch.
In the next batch you will be able to claim your funds.

### Withdrawing funds

The actual withdraw transaction transferring the tokens back into the MASTER_SAFE from the Gnosis Protocol can be initiated with the following command.

```ssh
npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma-separated-brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --withdraw --transferFundsToMaster --network=$MASTER_SAFE
```

The parameters are essentially the same as in the requesting withdraw script, except for the new flag `--withdraw` instead of `--withdrawRequest`.

## Even more secure setup with more owners

> (coming soon)

Reviewer 2: Is this planned to be part of this PR or another one?

Author: I removed it. Let's first gauge the interest in the current tutorial

> # Tutorial: Liquidity provision on Gnosis Protocol

Reviewer 3: Maybe we also add the warning here: 
This summary is for informational purposes only. It is not a risk assessment, nor investment advice! It is not intended to substitute for the advice of licensed professionals. Gnosis believes that the information is accurate as of the date of publication. No warranty of accuracy is given, and no liability for any error or omission is accepted by Gnosis Ltd. and/or its affiliates.

They are called brackets, as their orders are opening and closing like brackets:
One order is selling `token_1` for `token_2` for a certain price, while the second order is buying `token_1` for `token_2` at a little bit lower rate.
If the price moves in way such that both orders are traded one after the other, the passive liquidity provider earns the spread of their orders.

This concept is well explained in the documentation of [the programmable-orders](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_zTkuhWioTbRsbwKnBi5gEi3m7-bFcPyikQid7EUA2M/edit). Please study this article carefully before proceeding with this tutorial.

This tutorial will cover the following steps:

1. Prerequisites
2. Setting up a MASTER-SAFE
3. Liquidity provision
4. Withdrawing liquidity
5. Even more secure setup with more owners

If you have any questions, don't hesitate to visit us in the [Gnosis discord channel](https://chat.gnosis.io/)

## Prerequisites

> In this tutorial uses mainly two tools: The normal truffle scripts to build complicated and bundled ethereum transactions and the Gnosis-Safe interface to sign most of these transactions. In the Gnosis-Safe interface, we will generate a MASTER_SAFE, which will own all other accounts required for the liquidity provision and has full control over the funds involved in the liquidity provision.

Reviewer 3: the word "In" in the first sentence is not needed.

The prerequisites to this tutorial are:

1.  Have a _proposer-account_: You should generate a new Ethereum-account via your preferred tool (e.g., MetaMask) and fund this account with a little bit of Ether. 0.2 ETH should suffice.
    This account will be used for two tasks: Firstly, it will be used to deploy new proxy-contracts. Secondly, it is used to propose transaction to the Gnosis-Safe interface.

2.  Have a _signer-account_: You should have one designated signer Ethereum-account. This account can be an already given account, and most people would probably prefer to use their usual MetaMask account. This signer-account will be added as an owner to your MASTER_SAFE and you will sign transactions with it.

> 3.  Investment-tokens: Have the tokens you want to invest in the liquidity provision ready.

Reviewer 3: I would say: tokens part of your programmable orders (or whatever it will be called in the end). As it's explicitly NOT investment advice, we should stay clear of the word investment

## Setting up a MASTER_SAFE

In the upcoming sections, all scripts are executed on Rinkeby only.
In order to perform the steps on Mainnet, you need to do some obvious modifications. For example, you would want to go to [https://gnosis-safe.io/](https://gnosis-safe.io/) instead of [https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/](https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/).

First, we will generate a Gnosis-Safe account. This account is needed to bundle a lot of Ethereum transactions to 2 only transactions to simplify the whole setup process and to safe gas.

1. Visit: https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/ and sign into MetaMask with your "signer account".

![Gnosis-Interface landing page](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy-safe-start-page.png)

2. Create a new Gnosis-Safe by following the steps on the display:

- give your Gnosis-Safe a name: `MASTER_SAFE`
- add a second owner, the "proposer account"
- set the threshold for executing transactions to 2
  ![Owners and confirmation](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy_safe-setup.png)

3. Finish the setup process by signing the MetaMask transaction

> 4. Now, you should see your brand new gnosis-safe. Congrats. Send the funds you want to invest into the bracket strategy to the Gnosis-Safe.

Reviewer 3: you want include in the  (not invest)

Reviewer 2: @c3rnst, try using the "suggestion" feature.

```suggestion
4. Now, you should see your brand new gnosis-safe. Congrats. Send the funds you want to include into the bracket strategy to the Gnosis-Safe.
```

The script `complete_liquidity_provision` takes the following non-optional parameters:

- _masterSafe_: This is the `MASTER_SAFE` you generated and exported in the previous step. You should set the value to \$MASTER_SAFE
- _numBrackets_: The fleet size determines how many brackets you want to deploy. This number must be less than or equal to 20.

> - _baseTokenId_: You are specifying two tokens you want to provide liquidity for, the baseToken and the _quoteTokenId_ via their indices. In order to get the index of a token, look into the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _baseTokenId_: You are specifying two tokens you want to provide liquidity for, the base token and the quote token, via their indices. This is the id of the first token you want to trade. In order to get the index of a token, look into the next section.
```

- _currentPrice_: Please provide the current price of the trading pair: [ baseToken ] / [ quoteTokenId ]. Your input will be checked for plausibility by the script via the price of dex.ag
- _lowestLimit_: The liquidity provided will be split over the a price range of [lowestLimit, highestLimit]. Hence, the lowestLimit specifies the lowest price any bracket should trade.
- _highestLimit_: The liquidity provided will be split over the a price range of [lowestLimit, highestLimit]. Hence, the highestLimit specifies the highest price any bracket should trade.

#### Getting the index of your tokens

All token that have been added to the Gnosis protocol get a unique index. In order to read the index, visit [Etherscan GP contract(Rinkeby)](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xc576ea7bd102f7e476368a5e98fa455d1ea34de2#code) or for mainnet [Etherscan GP contract(Mainnet)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6f400810b62df8e13fded51be75ff5393eaa841f). Then, click on the tab: _Contract_ and the button "Read Contract":

![Read Etherscan contract](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy-etherscan-read.png)

> Then go down to the 27.th function: `tokenAddressToIdMap` and paste the token address of your token into the parameter field and run the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then go down to the 27th function: `tokenAddressToIdMap` and paste the token address of your token into the parameter field and run the query.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe check in point number 1. from the add token tutorial [here](https://docs.gnosis.io/protocol/docs/addtoken5/) how the reference the item number.

### Running the script and place your first liquidity strategy

The following script will place programmable orders for the pair DAI-WETH on a price range [150,260] on Rinkeby.

> You will invest 1000 [DAI](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0x5592EC0cfb4dbc12D3aB100b257153436a1f0FEa) and 5 [WETH](https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/address/0xc778417E063141139Fce010982780140Aa0cD5Ab).

Reviewer 3: deposit instead of invest

```ssh
cd dex-liquidity-provision
yarn install
yarn compile
yarn run networks-inject

> npx truffle exec scripts/complete_liquidity_provision.js --baseTokenId=0 --quoteTokenId=7 --lowestLimit=150 --highestLimit=260 --currentPrice=200 --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --depositBaseToken=5 --depositQuoteToken=1000 --fleetSize=20 --network=$NETWORK_NAME

Reviewer 2: This looks like a bracket strategy with OWL. Should we maybe use tokens 1 and 7 (WETH and DAI) here?

npx truffle exec scripts/complete_liquidity_provision.js --targetToken=0 --stableToken=7 --lowestLimit=150 --highestLimit=260 --currentPrice=200 --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --investmentTargetToken=5 --investmentStableToken=1000 --fleetSize=20 --network=$NETWORK_NAME
```

The script will first make some plausibility checks as the mentioned price check and that the boundaries - highestLimit and lowerLimit - are set reasonable for the current price.

> Then, it will create a transaction deploying new safes. All the address of the Gnosis-Safes will be printed on the screen.

Reviewer 3: maybe we need to say that there is a different safe (is there?) per bracket?

> Then, it will create a transaction deploying new safes. All the address of the Gnosis-Safes will be printed on the screen.

Reviewer 3: I assume Safe is a brandname and should be capitalised?

Signing and posting multi-send transaction 0x007ecc58f9dc222c26215b260abc363e0308dfec539d7eeabb8a2c9f09397157 from proposer account 0x740a98F8f4fAe0986FB3264Fe4aaCf94ac1EE96f
Transaction awaiting execution in the interface https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/app/#/safes/$MASTER_SAFE/transactions

==> Sending the funds transferring transaction, please execute this transaction second

Signing and posting multi-send transaction 0x09cb78a5a49f10305a2f108d45e8fa059e4231ebf219315c56409d67419d65fb from proposer account 0x740a98F8f4fAe0986FB3264Fe4aaCf94ac1EE96f
Transaction awaiting execution in the interface https://rinkeby.gnosis-safe.io/app/#/safes/$MASTER_SAFE/transactions
```

Now, you should just follow the link and sign & execute the transaction with the lower transaction-ID first. It should look like this:

![Read tokenAddressToIdMap](assets/tutorial_bracket_strategy_signing.png)

For executing, just press the button _confirm_.

If you are executing the second transaction with a lower gasPrice than the first one, then you can sign it immediately.
Otherwise, you should wait until the first one is mined. This works as the gas price usually determines the mining order of the transaction.

> Congrats. You managed to provide liquidity and have a chance to earn a passive income, if the prices are moving and returning back to your initial currentPrice.

Reviewer 3: I am not entirely sure how OK this is... Also depends on that orders are actually matched...?

For executing, just press the button _confirm_.

If you are executing the second transaction with a lower gasPrice than the first one, then you can sign it immediately.

> Otherwise, you should wait until the first one is mined. This works in most cases, as the gas price usually determines the mining order of the transaction.

Reviewer: Change reminder: it's not possible to execute both transactions at the same time from the web interface.

Congrats! You just provided liquidity and have a chance to earn some passive income if the prices are moving and returning back to your initial `currentPrice`.

## Withdrawing liquidity

The withdrawal from the Gnosis Protocol is always done in two steps: Requesting and Claiming.

### Withdraw request

Withdrawal requests can be made with the following command:

```ssh
npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma-separated-brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --requestWithdraw --network=$MASTER_SAFE
```

Here, the flag `--requestWithdraw` is very important part, which tells the script to initiate the the withdraw request.

> The `tokenIndices` of the tokens, which you want to withdraw from the brackets need to be specified via the flag `--tokenIds=[indices]` - do not write the brackets into the command.

Reviewer: A little nitpick, just because we also use the term "brackets" with another unrelated meaning.
```suggestion
The `tokenIndices` of the tokens, which you want to withdraw from the brackets need to be specified via the flag `--tokenIds=[indices]` - do not write the square brackets into the command.
```

Under normal usage, these are the exact same indices, which were used during the liquidity provision.

> The flag `--brackets=[comma separated brackets]` must contain the brackets that were deployed during the liquidity provision. Please provide these addresses separated by commas and without any spaces.

Reviewer: For good measure, but feel free to ignore.
```suggestion
The flag `--brackets=[comma separated brackets]` must contain the brackets that were deployed during the liquidity provision. Please provide these addresses separated by commas, without any spaces, and without square brackets.
```

Reviewer 2: Ironic?!

In case you don't remember them, you would have to run the following command:

```ssh
npx truffle exec scripts/get_deployed_brackets.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --network=$NETWORK_NAME
```

which will display all your previously written brackets and generate a CSV listing the brackets with more information.

By running the withdraw request script, you have generated a transaction within your Gnosis-safe interface. Execute this transaction and wait - maximal 5 minutes after the transaction gets mined - until the Gnosis Protocol closes the current auction batch.
In the next batch you will be able to claim your funds.

### Withdrawing funds

The actual withdraw transaction transferring the tokens back into the MASTER_SAFE from the Gnosis Protocol can be initiated with the following command.

```ssh
npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma-separated-brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --withdraw --transferFundsToMaster --network=$MASTER_SAFE
```

> The parameters are essentially the same as in the requesting withdraw script, except for the new flag `--withdraw` instead of `--withdrawRequest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters are essentially the same as in the requesting withdraw script, except for the two flags `--withdraw` and `--transferFundsToMaster` replacing `--withdrawRequest`.
```

npx truffle exec scripts/get_deployed_brackets.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --network=$NETWORK_NAME
```

which will display all your previously written brackets and generate a csv listing the brackets with more information.

By running the withdraw request script, you have generated a transaction within your Gnosis-safe interface. Execute this transaction and wait - maximal 5 minutes after the transaction gets mined - until the gnosis protocol closes its batch.
In the next batch you will be able to withdraw your funds.

### Withdrawing funds

The actual withdraw transaction transferring the tokens back into the MASTER SAFE from the Gnosis Protocol can be initiated with the following command.

```ssh
npx truffle exec scripts/withdraw.js --masterSafe=$MASTER_SAFE --brackets=[comma separated brackets]  --tokenIds=[indices] --withdraw --network=$MASTER_SAFE
```

The parameters are basically the same as in the requesting withdraw script, besides the new flag `--withdraw` instead of `--withdrawRequest`.

> ## Even more secure setup with more owners

Reviewer 3: Maybe a section on: tracking my orders / tracking my portfolio?

Author: Good point. Let's do this once the code is ready for that...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Securing your setup with more owners
```
